This is a quick lab to cover how we can use auto scaling with our ECS services.
So we already know that we can use auto scaling with EC2 to provision the actual container instances
themselves.
And so you can set up EC2 auto scaling just as we did in the EC2 section of course to launch
your container instances and then you can configure them so they come into the cluster we can then also
use command line utilities and various other tools to scale the amount of tasks that are running but
we can also go where we have a service we can define some of these characteristics of these behaviors
through the service.
Let's go into our service nginx and head over to auto scaling and we don't have any configured here.
So what we actually have to do is go update and then click through.
Because it's one of the last pages and here we go auto scaling so we can configure service auto scaling
here and you can also you can configure your minimum desired maximum number of tasks and you can also
add a policy so you can have your target tracking policy looking at different metrics and we have CPU,
memory, and IP connection count per target.
So how many requests are being routed per target or you could do step scaling.
And this is all very similar to the way EC2 auto scaling works.
We went over that in the EC2 section of the course.
You could set an alarm for CPU utilization when it reaches say 80 percent or you could do memory utilization.
Same sort of thing what I'm just going to do here is set the minimum number of tasks to 2 and the desire
to fall and let's say the maximum to 6 and let's just click next and update service and we can see that
a couple of things happened.
The IAM auto scale role was created and attached to the policy and we could actually then go into a
new tab and have a look at that role so let's go into.
IAM
and that link didn't work.
So here we go.
So this is the EC2 auto scaling role and let's have a look at what the trust relationship is there say the
service application auto scaling is allowed to assume a role and see what permissions it has the EC2
container  service auto scaling role permissions policy.
Let's have a look into that policy
so we can see this has the actions for describing and updating ECS services and then describing and
putting metric alarms in the cloud watch
the service has been updated so let's go back and have a look.
And if we go over two tasks yeah now we've got our four tasks because that's the desired number that
we just configured.
And if we go into events
we can see that two more targets were registered to the target group.
So if we go back over to our low balances we should see that they're also now in service in service
and they'll be attached to TG1. So sure enough we've got four healthy instances there.
So that's really all I wanted to cover here.
If you want to get some more experience you could set up some auto scaling policies and then go and
generate some load on your tasks and see what happens.
But it's going to be very similar to the way EC2 auto scaling works.
So that's it for this lab.
And what we're going to do now is we're actually going to take this configuration down and then in the
next lab we're going to cover the elastic container registry so we don't need this cluster anymore so
we can go in here and just click delete cluster. We can then go to our load balancer
and delete our load balancer and then we can delete both of our target groups
and then we can go and terminate both of our instances.
The other thing you'll want to do is go back to VPC and assuming you're not using this for anything
else you'll want to get rid of your NAT gateway because they do cost money so you'll use up your credits
on your free tier. Delete the NAT Gateway and then once you've deleted the NAT Gateway you need to
go to your private route table and remove the route
and that's pretty much it.
We can leave the security groups where they are you can remove them if you want to clean up your lab
completely but we don't need them now for the rest of this section.
So that's it for this lab.
Hope you had some fun and I'll see you in the next lab.